---
layout: default
title: Assessment Method 2
parent: EPA
nav_order: 5
---

{: .no_toc }

# EPA Assessment Method 2

**Assessment method 2:** 

**Professional discussion with portfolio**


## Overview

This assessment will take the form of a professional discussion which must be appropriately structured to draw out the best of the apprentice’s competence. It will involve the questions that will focus on the KSBs mapped to this method of assessment.

The rationale for this assessment method is:
This assessment method was selected as a valid way to draw out KSBs, in particular, the behaviours, which would be less likely to naturally occur in the project with presentation and questioning. It is commonplace for people in this occupation to engage in detailed technical discussions, so this assessment method mirrors their day to day work. This will allow some KSBs which may not naturally occur in every workplace or may take too long to observe to be assessed and the assessment of a disparate set of KSBs.

### Delivery
The independent assessor will conduct and assess the professional discussion.

**The professional discussion must last for 60 minutes.** The independent assessor has the discretion to increase the time of the professional discussion by up to 10% to allow the apprentice to complete their last answer. Further time may be granted for apprentices with appropriate needs in line with the EPAOs Reasonable Adjustment Policy.

The independent assessor will ask a minimum of 10 open questions. Questions may be taken from an EPAO question bank or be those generated by the independent assessor. Follow up questions are permitted where clarification is required.

### The professional discussion will be conducted as set out here:
The portfolio is submitted to the EPAO at the Gateway, a copy can be retained by the apprentice and brought by them to the professional discussion. **The independent assessor should have 10 days to review the portfolio prior to the professional discussion taking place.**

This is a 1:1 conversation in an appropriate environment (a quiet room free from distraction). The portfolio will be used by the apprentice to refer to exemplify a point. Questioning will be used to authenticate evidence and competence.

Video conferencing can be used to conduct the professional discussion, but the EPAO must have processes in place to verify the identity of the apprentice and ensure the apprentice is not being aided in some way.

The independent assessor must use the assessment tools and procedures that are set by the EPAO to record the professional discussion.

The independent assessor will make all grading decisions

### Venue
The professional discussion should take place in a quiet room, free from distractions and influence

The professional discussion can take place in any of the following:

* employer’s premises
* a suitable venue selected by the EPAO (for example a training provider's premises)
* **online via video conferencing**

[Professional Discussion Info](../info/Professional discussion with portfolio.zip){: .btn .btn-purple }
